Today some of our members volunteered to go and teach computation concepts to 7th grade students from S.U. Aquilino Caban School in Aguada, PR. CAHSI UPRM wants to thank all of those involved in this outreach effort! #cahsi #uprm #ece #outreach

This past week was the conclusion of our year-long event IAP. We want to thank all participants and company representatives for showing interest in helping our students further develop their professional careers through undergraduate research. #ece #uprm #IAP #research

Last week, our department offered the Focus Areas orientation For Electric and Computer Engineering. Students and professors exposed their experiences and knowledge to students interested in the future of their careers.#ece #uprm #inel #icom


Today, Wednesday April 17th at 2:00 pm in the Auditorium of Biology (B-392) Josh Coco, the Executive Director for Advancement, Communication, Recruitment, and Outreach at the University of Miami’s Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science is giving a conference to recruit students for their graduate school and he will like to speak with potential students about their programs. They love our students from Puerto Rico and he wants to ensure he can give them as much information about their graduate school as possible. 


Capstone Orientation next week! 
If you're in CoOp you will have to notify professors or counselor via email. 


On March 14, Dr. Miguel Vélez was at #UPRM presenting about his career and research. Dr. Velez is very recognized in the remote sensing area and is the current director of #ECE at #UTEP.


We thank Harris for this contribution, which helped to rebuild the room after it was damaged by Hurricane Maria. Graduate students have been working over 20 yrs in the RASP Laboratory with rapid prototyping of digital and mixed-signal electronic systems.


This semester Dr. Isidoro Couvertier has been appointed Director of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department. We would like to thank and congratulate him for his service to the students at UPRM. 
                                   
We want to congratulate the IEEE Western Puerto Rico Section for winning the 2018 Best Achievement Award for the initiatives developed by them after Hurricane Maria on energy resilience. Their work is a reflection of their effort, dedication and collaboration.


On January 15, @AdrianIldefonso, a UPRM alumni and a current Georgia Tech grad student, held a conference on how to apply to REUs and grad schools. He also talked about his experience applying and studying at Georgia Tech.


Ex-Colegial Adrian Ildefonso received a very unique achievement at the Nuclear and Space Radiation Effects Conference (NSREC) held on July 16-20. His work was recognized with the Outstanding Paper Award. This is the second time a student is awarded such recognition.


Dr. Nayda Santiago and #icom students Maria Marrero and Yamil Gonzalez were at the Aurora Mendez school in San Sebastian giving the #hourofcode, in which they taught teachers how algorithms and binary numbers work, so students can learn #CompScience from an early age. #uprm


We want to congratulate ICOM student Isaac Rivera Rivas who on November 26 stood out from his peers and received the prestigious scholarship Dr. Andrés Calderón Colón in the room that bears his name. This scholarship, which recognizes and supports collegiate talent since 2014, is awarded to students with excellent academic performance and involved in community service. 


On Thursday, November 8, Campus Verde gave students from Eugenio Maria de Hostos High School a closed orientation on renewable energy options. We want to encourage future generations to work on having an eco-friendly perspective and we thank those students who participated in this event. 


Management Leadership for Tomorrow is a career development institution that helps minorities at college. Career Prep is an 18 month program that prepares Fellows for internships and full- time opportunities. First deadline is soon!


Our professional counselors will be giving several workshops this week. Don't miss it! 


The Electronics/Hardware committee will be conducting an orientation for students interested in the area! Highly recommended for students who have not yet decided their area of emphasis. Share it with your friends so everyone knows!


Four professors, Agustin Irizarry, Fabio Andrade, Eduardo Ortiz and the Associate Director of our department Eric Aponte, participated in “The Fundamentals of Energy Assurance and Advanced Microgrid Conceptual Design Course,” hosted by Sandia National Laboratories celebrated on the 26th of October in the island of St. Thomas, VI. The event was funded by FEMA with the interest of dissipating information on microgrid systems for secure, economical and efficient technologies.


Students and professors explained their different experiences and knowledge to interested students who wanted to know more about future careers in engineering.


Their aim is to promote the licensing and use of HAM Radio communication in foresight of another island-wide emergency like a hurricane or an earthquake. For more information, contact Dr. Sandra Cruz-Pol at our department.


We want to congratulate these six students for their outstanding performance in the Google Technical Challenge at GMiS/Henaac 2018. Both teams tied up in second place!! Thank you to Sujeily, Cristian, Lianne, Carlos, Pedro and Gil for their participation in demonstrating what our #COLEGIALES are able and willing to do.


We want to thank ACONER (from the acronym Asociación de contratistas y consultores de energia renovable de Puerto Rico, in Spanish) for their visit to our campus on the 13th of October. Our Microgrid Laboratory, led by Dr. Fabio Andrade, received a donation from the non-profit organization. ACONER also gave a seminar on the Microgrid Regulation 9028 and visited the first microgrid laboratory of the UPR system.


Three of our undergraduate students doing research in cybersecurity performed to the best of their abilities and won first place in the expert team category at the 2018 #CAHSI #Hackathon at GMiS / #Henaac30 2018 Conference.


At the Engineering Community Summit 2018 Harris Corporation sponsored a scholarship to provide economic aid to undergraduate full-time students that have academic excellence, leadership and are being engaged in activities of academic or community service. We are proud of our students for receiving The Harris Award for Academic Excellence on this eventful day. Keep up the good work!


We are very pleased to celebrate with Dr. Nayda Santiago her Undergraduate Research Faculty Award, granted by the Education Committee of the Computer Research Association (CRA-E) this year. Her work continues to show her dedication to the academia and our institution. Participating in the Google Faculty in Residence and the Problem Solving Training Programs at Google were just two Nayda’s most recent accomplishments in her goal of having greater hispanic representation in jobs relating to computer science and masters or doctorate programs.


This Friday, October 19th, the University of Puerto Rico Mayaguez Campus will be hosting its annual Open House. The Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering will showcase projects and describe the different disciplines available for them in our department. We hope to inspire and lead high school students to their desired careers. Mayaguez welcomes you with open arms!


IEEE Women in Engineering presents Star Program 2018. This activity offers high school students the opportunity of learning about all the Engineering programs that the University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez offers.  


Congratulations to all students who participated in the Industrial Affiliates Program Fall Meeting 2018. Thanks to our sponsors. 


Today the Annual Meeting of the Industrial Affiliates Program of the ECE Department will be held at the "Casa Capitular del Colegio de Ingenieros y Agrimensores de PR de Mayagüez ". 9am to 3pm.


Today, October, 3th at 2pm, the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department will celebrate its Industrial Advisory Board Meeting in S-210. We are pleased to gather with our members to convene. We welcome our new members and thank you all for your support.


Orientation prior to officially enrolling as students in our Electrical and Computer Engineering department


Activity to our honor students which are candidates for graduation to May 2018 held at MUSA


The SWE Tech Team is collaborating on a multidisciplinary project with Boston Scientific,where the team will be competing and presenting their results in the SWE National Conference in october - november 2018. 


We want to thank all the graduate and undergraduate students of Electrical Engineering and Computers who helped us with the Open House of Engineering. We understand that this was a very difficult semester, and in the short time of rest they have, before beginning the next semester, they voluntarily decided to help us with this activity. The directors, professors, and staff greatly appreciate their dedication, and effort in orienting the future students of INEL / ICOM and therefore the future of Puerto Rico. Thank you !!


The consulting company Accenture will have an Info Session on Thursday, December 21 at Universal Time on SH-203. We will have sandwiches for the first 20 people. On the same day there will also be a presentation on Technology Trends at 7:30 pm on SH-105.


Congratulations to our graduates of INEL and ICOM for their achievements. They have climbed one more step. Keep reaching success wherever you are, Forward always now in this new stage of ex-Colegial student. We will see you on Sunday July 16, 2017 to celebrate such an important event in your lives.


CAHSI UPRM is very proud of our members in the Arecibo Observatory Autonomous Drone project for winning Best Poster in IAP Fall 2018 semester meeting and Best Presentation in IAP Spring 2019 semester meeting!


On February 18th we had two ARG workshops given by Dr. Nayda Santiago. Our members learned about Time Management and Problem Solving. We appreciate all of those who came to participate on President's day. 


Some of the members of the AO Drone research project during their most recent trip to the Arecibo Observatory, where they had the opportunity to interact with a National Geographic documentary crew about their project and the after effects of Hurricane Maria.


On January 26th, the NanoGames team presented at the "NanoAventuras en Puerto Rico” outreach activity. They motivated visiting Boy and Girl Scouts to play and talked about concepts such as magnetism, electrons, and solar electricity.


Last January 31 we had our intro ARG training given by Dr. Nayda Santiago. Also, our member Kristalys Ruiz, introduced a pilot mentoring program to develop leadership between our students. We are thankful for these contributions to our research students.


Last week we had a Christmas dinner for CAHSI UPRM members this semester. We hope you all have a great holiday vacation!


﻿This past month was the conclusion of our monthly event. Thanks to all participants and companies for helping our students on their professional careers through research. 


Today engineering students volunteered to help high school students learn math. UPRM wants to thank everyone involved


The IEEE Robotics and Automation Society, UPRM Chapter invites you to our next workshop called "How to Build your Robot", which will take place tomorrow at 6 pm in S-207. Here, we'll show you how to build a simple square-bot using VEX Robotics parts, and see how it functions autonomously as well as manually controlled.


You are cordially invited to the MATLAB Workshop! This workshop will serve as an introduction to the program and its other components. MATLAB is a versatile tool that is used to make data processing, make models and simulations, among other things, in the industrial and academic environment.


You are invited to the PCB and Welding Workshop! This workshop consists of two parts. In the first part, they will learn about how to design a PCB "printed circuit board" using EagleCAD. In the second part, you will learn everything that comes with welding and you will be welding a PCB.


PSpice is a program that is used to simulate circuits and different electronic devices. It is a tool widely used in the industry so take this opportunity to enrich your technical knowledge and prepare for that internship or coop.


The Python workshop that will take place tomorrow, March 21 at 6:00 p.m., will change to room S-203 (Stefani). Similarly, the Game Board Night will be held in that same room, starting at 7:30 p.m.


Today we will have our sale of piña colada & mix sandwiches! At the universal time in Stefani's lobby, do not miss separating your combo.


The IEEE Computer Society will be offering a Python Workshop next March 21 during Universal Time, at S-207 (Stefani).


The WIE of the IEEE invites you to its movie night where we will be watching Avengers: Infinity War.


We would like to congratulate the IEEE Western Puerto Rico Section for winning the 2018 Best Achievement Award for the initiatives that they developed after the impact of Hurricane Maria on energy resilience. Through their hard work, dedication and collaboration they have contributed greatly to our community.


The IEEE Computer Society will be selling shirts to raise funds for future activities of the same.


You are invited to attend the microcontroller workshop. Applications of "embedded hardware" finds many uses in industries and in different branches of engineering. Do not miss this opportunity. There are limited spaces!


The IEEE will be carrying out a fundraiser in collaboration with Papalaya. Where you can enjoy a dinner with your family and friends. You can also collect your invitation to the Initiation of the IEEE!




We enthusiastically announce our IEEE 2019 initiation ceremony.
On March 28, 2019 we will be initiating our members of the IEEE. Come share with us in this great celebration. They will be able to meet the new Presidents of the IEEE and their societies, share with our faculty advisors and other members of the association.


We would like to inform our community that tomorrow we will have our sale of gustitos and they will be able to buy stickers from the IEEE! Do not miss this opportunity tomorrow, March 7, at Universal Time in the Stefani lobby!


The IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society (EMBS) invites you to participate in its first assembly in 2019. Here we will be giving you information about who we are, what we do, our goals, projects, upcoming activities and much more.


The Short Circuits Awards could not take place last semester. This year we will be presenting the awards of the nominations in the initiation. We clarified that the prizes were reduced by the amount of time the process takes.


We enthusiastically announce the elections for the awards. They will be open until Friday, March 8. Enter the link and vote for the person you think is most appropriate for the award.




We enthusiastically announce our IEEE 2019 initiation ceremony.
On March 28, 2019 we will be initiating our members of the IEEE. Come share with us in this great celebration. They will be able to meet the new Presidents of the IEEE and their societies, share with our faculty advisors and other members of the association.


Come today and participate in our fundraiser at Cold Stone de Mayagüez. Enjoy a delicious ice cream while you contribute to our association. We will wait for you


We want to thank all the volunteers who said that they present our breakfast activity to the most needy, in collaboration with the HKN and the AFIM UPRM, last Saturday. Little by little we make a difference!


We have already opened the official registration for our Women in Leadership Summit 2019. Come and share with women leaders of Puerto Rico during this special night.


We will have speakers including Naima Rodríguez (Executive Producer of Teatro Brief) and Ginoris Lopez-Lay, Vice President of First Bank, among others to announce.


If you're a fan or just want to get distracted, come see Avengers: Infinity War with us. The new installment of this saga, Avengers: Endgame, will be released in April so it refreshes your memory a bit before it leaves.
We will wait for you!


Helping those who need it is everyone's job. Therefore, next March 30, together with the HKN and the AFIM UPRM, we will be organizing a breakfast for the most needy. Join us!


Women In Engineering extends a cordial invitation to you this Saturday, April 13, to our "Engineering Workshop" at the University of Puerto Rico, Mayagüez Campus. The program consists of offering high school students the opportunity to interact with all branches of Engineering in the Campus through activities and projects. Do not miss this great experience.
Cost: $ 10 (includes lunch). Hours: 8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m.


Women in Engineering invites you to this activity, which will give high school students the opportunity to interact and interact with the different branches of engineering. This through activities and projects guided by undergraduate students of the UPRM. The workshop is not only limited to girls, but the entire student population can participate. Any question or question can contact us in our social networks or via email (wie@uprm.edu). We wait for you!


The AAUW-Puerto Rico, Inc. seeks to sponsor university students on the island who wish to participate in the NCCWSL. This will be held in Maryland from May 29 to June 1. For more details, please access the following link:


The NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland, Ohio has an internship opportunity available for undergraduate students. This position is in NASA's Pathways Intern Program which provides students with the opportunity to explore NASA careers and gain meaningful developmental work experience. The intern will work in the Materials Chemistry and Physics Branch located in the Materials and Structures Division of the Research and Engineering Directorate.


We are looking for students who are pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering, Ceramic Engineering, Computer Science, Materials Engineering, Materials Science, or Physics